Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1012.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/12STUMPWilmingtonDELAWAREDEH. Fletcher Brown Park3,484 WORDS

	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. As you know if you watched the debate last night, I'm not in the strongest of voices, but I can hear you and I hope you can hear me.

	You know, I'm glad to be in Delaware. I remember when Mr. Bush and the Republicans used to deride me as the governor of a small state. I didn't think that was all bad in Arkansas, and I don't think it's all bad in Delaware. They came to my state and tried to deride us because 40,000 people in my state work in the poultry industry, and in Kent and Sussex Counties in Delaware, I don't think they think that's all bad.

	Let me tell you how very glad I am to be here first with your senior Senator, Joe Biden, a great leader and a great friend of mine. For two years, Joe Biden has labored to get a crime bill through the United States Congress, a bill that would put the national government firmly on the side of law enforcement, a bill that would put more police officers on the street, would finally give us a national waiting period before dangerous handguns can go into the hands of people with criminal records or mental health histories, a bill that would make some changes that many of us think should be made in the criminal appeals process, and for two years this president and his allies in the Senate have blocked that bill. Now the Congress went home, in spite of Joe Biden's best efforts, without a crime bill, and the streets of America will be less safe because of it.

	I want you to elect me so that Joe Biden and I can give the American people a crime bill that will make the American people safer. I want to say, too, how glad I am to be here with Congressman Tom Carper, your next governor. Not a bad job. I worked with Tom Carper in the Democratic Leadership Council, a group of people committed to changing the direction of the Democratic party, to go beyond trickle-down economics and not back to tax-and-spend economics, but to invest and grow this economy. That's the kind of person he's been in Congress; that's the kind of governor he'll be. I'm looking forward to serving with him and to helping grow Delaware because of the leadership of someone like Tom Carper, a real Democrat.

	I'm glad to be here with Ruth Ann Minner, your lieutenant governor candidate--with Jim Roth--and with your former Lieutenant Governor, S. P. Woo, a candidate for Congress. I'm glad to be here with all of them. Mr. Bush always makes fun of me for having been a Rhodes scholar, but Mr. Woo makes me feel dumb. And I'm glad to be here with you. I want to say, too, a special word of thanks for two other people who are here somewhere in the audience: Tom Pinosa, the national trustee and president of the Delaware Fraternal Order of Police, and Timmy Mulaney, the vice president. They have endorsed my campaign for president, and I'm grateful for them and their support.

	My fellow Americans, I saw some signs out here today that said "Republicans for Clinton," and I was glad to see them. I come here to Delaware and to this wonderful city, with your Mayor, Mayor Frawley, and you're about-to-be Mayor, Mayor Sills--to say that I do not seek a victory of party in this election, for both parties have to change. I seek a victory for the American people and a new direction as we end the Cold War and move forward to the challenges we face looking toward twenty-first century.

	I have reached out to all kinds of Americans, to Democrats, Republicans and Independents, to former Perot supporters, to all kinds of people from all walks of life. In North Carolina last week, the two people who circulated all the Perot petitions came out and endorsed our campaign. When Senator Gore was here just a few days ago, your former Republican governor, Russell Peterson, endorsed our campaign because we have a real commitment to an environmental presidency, not a phony one.

	Not very long ago, in the State of California, twenty-one executives in the northern part of that state from computer and electric companies--electronics companies, two-thirds of them were Republicans but they endorsed the Clinton-Gore campaign because they said you can't make it in a global economy without a real partnership between business and government and labor, and they're tired of the politics of division--they want progress.

	The other day in Chicago over 400 corporate executives followed the lead of the former chairman and chief executive officer of DuPont, Irving Shapiro, and endorsed this ticket, and one-third of them were Republicans. We are moving forward to a new America together.

	And today, in a stern rebuke to the rhetoric of the other side in this election, twenty-four retired generals and admirals endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket. A former chief of staff of the Army, a former director of the CIA, the deputy commander of Operation Desert Storm, and a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff--twenty-four in all--said we believe that patriotism is not the private property of the Bush administration or the Republican party. We want to rebuild our country.

	My friends, my state is not much bigger than Delaware. I live in a state, I always like to say, where people expect you to run the governor's office like a country store, and where even your enemies smile and call you by your first name. I know what it's like to live in a state where people can really hold you accountable, where people feel that they know you, where they take your measure. I know that in some ways it's a greater badge of honor to be elected to state office in a state like Delaware, where everybody knows you, than in a bigger state where you might be able to make it on television. And I respect the kind of personal relationships that have been forged between you and people like Joe Biden. And I tell you--what I hope to do in this country is to give the American people a sense, once again, that there is a personal bond between the president and the people, that we are working together across the lines of race and region and income, that we are trying to be one people again, one nation, indivisible, under God with liberty and justice for all--that's what I want in this country.

	What we have to face today is just what Senator Biden said. We are in a new era in which our national security will be defined in large measure by our economic security. No country can be strong around the world unless it is first strong at home. Trickle-down economics, the idea that if you just keep taxes low on the wealthiest Americans and minimize the role of the national government in the life of an economy, you can grow it. They've had twelve years, look what's happened. In 1980, we had the highest wages in the world, and now we're thirteenth. In the last four years, in the last four years, there has been no growth in private-sector jobs in the United States of America. There are 35,000 fewer jobs in the private sector in the United States today than there were four years ago. That is the worst record in fifty years. I say we can do better. Two-thirds--two-thirds of the American people are working harder today for lower wages than they were making ten years ago. There have been twice as many bankruptcies as new jobs created in the Bush administration. One hundred thousand--I will say it again--100,000 Americans a month lose their health insurance. The college dropout rate is twice the high school dropout rate because so many young people go and cannot afford to stay. I believe we can do better.

	I want us to take a new course--not tax-and-spend economics--you can't divide a pie that's not growing; not trickle-down economics because the benefits never trickle down, but invest and grow--invest and grow. I believe we should have a tax policy that asks the wealthiest Americans, yes, to pay a little more, but then gives them incentives--not across-the-board cuts, but incentives. It says you want to pay lower taxes, invest in new plants, new businesses, new technologies, new jobs--we'll lower your taxes.

	I believe we should waste less of your tax money and invest more. We ought to take every dollar by which defense is reduced--every dollar--and reinvest it in an economy for the twenty-first century--in new road systems, new high-speed rail systems, new environmental clean-up systems, new solid waste recycling, new transportation systems. We can clean up this country and move this country forward and put this country back to work. That's what we ought to be doing.

	I believe that we ought to recognize that we're living in a world where what you earn depends on what you can learn, and we need a real commitment to an education system second to none--in America. What would that mean? It would mean in the beginning telling everybody in America with a job we're going to teach you to read and give you a high school diploma in the next five years so you can earn a living. It would mean telling every young person who does not go to college we'll give you two years of further education and apprenticeship training to get good jobs, not dead-end jobs. It would mean opening the doors of college education to all Americans.

	I want to replace the present wasteful student loan program with a national trust fund out of which any American without regard to income can borrow the money for college and then pay it back in one of two ways, either as a small percentage of their incomes after they go to work or with two years of service to our country before or after college, as teachers, as police officers, in health clinics, working with children, working with the disabled, working with the elderly, working in housing programs. You think about it. Without a lot of bureaucracy, from the grassroots up, we could solve a lot of America's people problems and educate a whole generation of Americans. It would be the best money we ever spent.

	I want a system in which America becomes the last advanced industrial country but, hopefully, still the best, finally, to control health care costs and provide basic health care to all Americans. A system that is not run by the government, that reduces bureaucracy, that reorganizes our insurance companies and our health care delivery systems so that people can keep their private doctors and keep their private hospitals and keep their private insurance companies, but no more rip-offs; everybody gets a chance to have health care. We'll keep the costs within inflation and go forward with a managed competition system. We've got to do this. We'll never get control of the deficit, we'll never make the economy healthy again until we bring health care costs under control.

	I want an America where we face all of our problems in an honest fashion, where we say we're going to bring this deficit down in the next four years and we do it. I was in that debate last night listening to Mr. Bush talk about cutting spending. I couldn't believe my ears. Ask Tom Carper. Ask Joe Biden. George Bush has asked the Congress to spend even more money than it spent. Ask them. Don't take my word for it. His budget was so bad last year that three-quarters of the Republicans in the House of Representatives voted against it.

	In 1980, George Bush said that this kind of economics was voodoo economics. He was right in 1980, and we ought to prove him right in 1992 by closing the door on it forever and ever.

	I want us to face some of our human problems. I want us to face the AIDS problem, not just at debate time but every day. Do you know a million and a half of your fellow Americans are HIV positive? It is a raging epidemic. It could swallow all the savings we hope to achieve in other health care costs. It could wreck the lives of millions of Americans. We need a president who will honestly face this, put one person in charge, put it on the front burner, talk about it all the time, and take the lead in health education programs in every school, every workplace in this country to keep our people alive. It is a matter of life and death.

I want a president and I want to be the kind of president that will unite the American people across the lines of race and ethnic group. Look at this ticket here. This is America. We don't have a person to waste, but we are wasting people at a phenomenal rate. Too many babies born with low birth weight. Too many people dropping out of school. Too much childhood violence. Too much childhood abuse. Too many people in prison, the highest percentage of people behind bars of any nation on Earth. And every time someone is lost, the rest of us pay for it. Every time we have to put somebody in jail, that's money that could be spent on education, health care, investing in jobs and building a new future.

	I tell you, there was a lot of talk at that Republican Convention about how some of us weren't real Americans and some of us didn't come from real families. If you believe everybody who will work hard, obey the law, and play by the rules has a place in your America, I'm your candidate. I want us all to go forward together.

	And finally, let me say this. This is a challenge. I want it to be exciting again. I want you to get up every morning believing that your country can do better. But make no mistake about it, we did not get into this mess overnight, we will not get out of it overnight. And every American will have to have the courage to change. I want to empower Americans to take control of their own lives, and challenge us all to be more responsible. I want to make it possible for more people on welfare to move to work and then require them to do it when we can take care of their children.

	I want to reward the working poor, the great heroes in this country, or all those people that go out there every day and work forty hours a week, and they're still in poverty, and the tax system ought to lift them out of poverty if they work forty hours a week. I want to challenge the working people of this country--I'm tired of all the anti- working person, anti-labor rhetoric, but nobody--no president can protect the job of any laboring man or woman unless those folks are also willing to continually become more productive and reeducate themselves. I want to give the means to do it and then challenge them to do it. I know they will. I believe they will.

	I want to say to the executives of this country, "I want your companies to be more productive, I want to give you more tax incentives to modernize." But we cannot go through another decade where the people who run the show raise their pay by four times as much as the workers' pay goes up, three times as much as the profits go up. We need to go up or down together--basic fairness and equity, forward together, more incentives for jobs in America, no more tax breaks to move our jobs overseas. Let's build this country up and move it forward.

	And I want us to be a beacon of hope and freedom, I want us to reach out to the rest of the world, I want us to trade more with the rest of the world, and I want the trade not only to be free, but fair. We ought to be reaching out to other countries, but not be played for a sucker. We ought to ask people to observe their own laws and be fair with us, and we'll be fair with them. That's the kind of America I want to lead.

	You know, today I was in Philadelphia before I came down here. And I just want to tell you--I--you know, we--when we give speeches and you go with the Secret Service, they always make you go in what's called a holding room. Today I got to go in a holding room in this big, fancy building back here, and it's real beautiful. The last holding room I had was in a garage that two brothers own on the south side of Philadelphia. And these two boys--they were boys to me, they were both thirty and twenty-eight--they'd been in business together for thirteen years, two brothers working hard. One of them was fifteen when they started. They said, "Governor, this is the worst year we've ever had. We had six employees, we had to let them all go. It's just us now. Neither one of us could take a vacation this year, but we're going to vote for you and give you a chance to change it."

	And then I walked down the street and I saw a young working man that was thirty-five years old, had never voted in his life before. He said, "I want you to change it. I'm embarrassed that I never voted. I never realized how much of my life was on the line every time we had an election."

	In Orlando, Florida last week, I met an eighty-three-year-old woman who had never voted in her life before, but she just registered to vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore and a new America.

	Three weeks from tomorrow America will make a decision that will chart the future of this country for a generation. We have been around for more than 200 years because once in a generation when we had to have the courage to change, we always did it--we always did it. From the time we went from thirteen colonies to one nation, to the time when we held together in the Civil War and Abraham Lincoln laid his life down for the Union, to the time when Franklin Roosevelt lifted this country in the Great Depression, we have always had the courage to change.

	In the next three weeks I ask for your help to exalt hope over fear, to exalt new ideas over proven failures, to exalt the courage to change over the easy path of slow decline. I can tell you, my friends, we are better than we've been getting, we are better than this. Let's make America what it ought to be on November 3rd.

	Thank you, and God bless you all.

AIDSARKANSASECONOMY--GENERALEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDENDORSEMENTS--GENERALINFRASTRUCTUREINVESTMENT--TAX INCENTIVES     ŽE ZE TE PE HE
 =E 8E 3E )E !E E 	E þD	 y 	 u 	 m 	 ] 	 = 	 ( 	  e: