Speeches\1952\rep\S52R1016.001SPEECH1952RepublicanEISENHOWER (R)10/16STUMPHACKENSACKNEW JERSEYNJ1,918 WORDS

	Ladies and Gentlemen, you may have already heard that I am rather new in this political game, so this is my first political trip to this great state.  My first and most pleasant duty is to thank each of you from the bottom of my heart for taking an hour out of your busy day to come here.  It seems wonderful to see the children out.  I am truly grateful to each of you for taking this hour to allow me a chance to bring you a word of friendly greeting and to express to you a few of the thoughts that are on my heart and mind as we go through this political campaign.  First let me say that I address you not merely as a Republican, not as a member of any political party, or whether you class yourself as Independents.  I come before you as one American before his fellow citizens to discuss a few of the matters that are certainly important to all of us in this political time.

     This crusade is far from a one-man show.  It is not just a question of Ike, the man, himself.  It is a question of everybody down the line, down through the precinct workers and to every person who goes into a voting booth on November 4th.  Part of the team you have seen on this platform today.  They were introduced to you by Chairman Dickerson.  The three of them I hope that you will send to Washington this Fall in order to help out in the great work of substituting good government for bad government, which must be done throughout this whole government starting on January 20th next.

     Although this is my first trip to your state, I have been traveling through the far corners of the land for some weeks.  I want to bring to you something of the reactions from those districts, something that I have gathered from the hundreds of thousands of American I have met in states, cities, rural communities, and great gatherings all over the countryside.

     Now, the first great impression I got from them is this: There is an uneasiness and a very definite feeling among our people that we have not been led in the way we should like to be led.  They believe that we have been let down in specific directions: First, that we have not been led intelligently and surely toward a peaceful solution of the great international problems that beset us today.  Now, our people well know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no perfect solution for a situation in which the Communist dictatorship is governing 800 million of the world's population today.  As long as they take a threatening and aggressive attitude there is no perfect solution.  But the strength of the free world is so great that it seems almost ridiculous that we should live in doubt and fear, that we should have to continue to send our men and women overseas to serve in uniform to protect American interests, even on the battlefield.  The record of the administration is certainly nothing to brag about in that direction.

     Now, while that has been going on our expenditures have gone up and up.  I am quite certain--and this is what I have heard all over the countryside--that none of us really knows what 80 or 85 billion dollars is or looks like or feels like.  We couldn't imagine it if we saw it heaped up in front of us.  But we do know this: we know that it is more than we can all afford.  How do we know that?  Because here at a time when earnings are at an all-time peak and taxes at an all-time peak, yet we still can't pay our bills.  When we can't pay our bills it makes your money cheaper, it undermines your Social Security, it takes the dollars out of your pocket.  Those dollars represent your savings accounts in bonds, in pensions or insurance.  That must be stopped because as long as that deficit is there it is going to continue to cheapen your money and raise your prices and you are caught in a double squeeze and you are not as well off as you were even five years ago.

     All of these things are bad enough and, admittedly, many of them cannot be helped.  But many of them can be helped as long as we have these great problems to meet as people--if we do not at the same time have to tolerate subversion and dishonesty in government.  And yet day by day our headlines have reported to us things along this line that make us hang our heads in shame.  Americans deserve the right to be proud of their own government, and as long as that situation exists, we are not going to be united, we are not going to be leaders of the world towards world peace that we could be if we were united behind a firm and honorable government.

	People are tired of waste, they are tired of waste and extravagance.  For example, $22,000 isn't very much to a Washington bureaucrat, but on a report submitted not long ago there was a $22,000 item.  It bought a lemonade machine for Indo-China.  Now as I say, $22,000 isn't much to them, but it can mean a headache to us when it is too often repeated.

     In the same way we got, in North Africa, two airfields for the price of five.  One of the services bought 20,000 chairs and only paid $10 more for each one than the market price.  That is the kind of waste and extravagance that must be eliminated now.

     And finally, people are tired of federal governmental interference into their business.  The long nose of government now reaches into almost every activity that we have.  The other day in a talk I happened to say that they were doing everything, or volunteering to do almost everything except washing the dishes.  Some of my opponents picked this up and had a little fun about it.  They said their administration was going to give everybody an electric dishwasher.  But then I found a book published by the government on how to wash dishes.  Ladies and gentlemen--well, I think the ladies would be more interested in this.  You want to get a dishpan that is big enough to hold your dishes.  It says so in the book.  It shouldn't be too big to go in the sink.  And finally it says warm water is a good cleansing agent.  They really found out something down in Washington.  What they didn't say and should have said is that we are going to go to Washington with a lot of hot water and a lot of cleansing agents and we are going to put some disinfectant in it and there is going to be a great big cleaning up.

     With all this king of bungling and fumbling and falling around, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you what you would do if you had a school bus driver who was taking your children to school each day, and one day he got a little careless and he ran into a ditch.  The next day he ran through a red light, and the next day he happened to run into a boy on a bicycle.  About this time you would decide that he may be a good fellow but you wouldn't want him driving your bus.  You would get a new bus driver.  And that is just what we need now.  We have had enough of this reckless driving.

     Now I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, I did not come before you to engage in any contests in political promises.  All of the political promises that are possible to make have been used up in the last 20 years and most of them are pretty shopworn.  I came before you, before American citizens, to make a pledge, to pledge you this:

     If you want to substitute honest government for a government that is too tolerant of dishonesty; if you want to substitute loyal men in government for those who have been too indifferent towards subversion and disloyalty in government; if you want to restore frugality to government instead of waste and extravagance; if you want to bring down the cost of government and, thereby, eventually taxes; and, moreover--and most important of all--if you want to put men and women in Washington who are devoted and loyal American men and women, who will devote their lives to searching out ways and means of achieving peace, who will unite you behind them in searching for peace, who will lead the free world into a sturdy comradeship that will stop communism in its tracks; then the answer is in your hands.

     I don't mean that you can do this job by any face-lifting process, any repaint job; you have got to clean out, get the kind of men and women who have not grown arrogant and complacent through too long exercise of power--men and women who realize that they are of you, they are part of you--there are some of them in the middle of this crown, and you picked them out because you believed in their integrity; because their prestige in the community is great, you believed in them--and their presence in that government will be assurance to you that there is no slickness, no chicanery, no crookedness going on.

     That is the kind of thing you can do.  You can send those people to Washington to give you a government of which you can be proud.  And if you are proud of it, I assure you it will enjoy a prestige and an influence abroad that will bring peace and will find the best possible solution to this terrible thing in Korea, will prevent future Koreas, and will give us an opportunity, under God's care, to live peaceful and tranquil lives at home.

     So the pledge I make on behalf of all those associated with me in this crusade and on behalf of myself is this: If you want to send these men and women to Washington--in the Senate, in the Legislature, in the Executive Departments--they pledge to you every bit of strength, devotion and loyalty they have to give you that kind of government--the kind of government that solves every single problem by the yardstick of what is good for the United States of America, a government that recognizes no second-class citizens, where everybody is equal under the meaning of the Constitution, where the government recognizes than a united America is the most powerful force on earth and can do anything to which it sets its heart and mind.

     That is the pledge this group would make to a crowd like this.

     And now, ladies and gentlemen, before I go, let me thank you once more for your courtesy in coming here and for your attention.  I hope you will allow me here to pay a little tribute to a Hackensack man who has been of great usefulness to me over these last weeks that I traveled over the United States.  His name is Fred Morrow and I hope he is a man that many of you know as favorably as I do.  He has been very helpful.

     Good bye.
BUDGET DEFICITGOVERNMENT--CORRUPTION/ETHICSGOVERNMENT SUBVERSIVES/TRAITORSGOVERNMENT WASTE     ) á( Û( ×( Í(
 ¿( º( µ( «( ¡( Ÿ( Ÿ( ”(	 Z 	 L 	 / 	  e: