Speeches\1992\dem\S92D0916.001SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)09/16STUMPBaldwin ParkCALIFORNIACA1869 WORDS
	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for standing in this heat today. As we celebrate today Mexican Independence Day, we want the American people to be independent of Bush and Quayle and trickle-down economics in forty-eight days.

	I'm delighted to be here with Gloria Melina and Mayor Varga and all the people of Baldwin Park and all the people of this valley.

	And I am very proud to be here with Diane Feinstein, who I think you'll make the next United States Senator from California.

	We have, Diane Feinstein and Al Gore and I and many others, tried to change and broaden the mission of the Democratic party to make it open to people who have been voting Republican, people who supported Ross Perot, people who were independent.

	We believed we could have business and labor working together. We believe we can protect the environment and promote the economy. We believe we can reduce the deficit and increase investment in our country.

	We believe we need more opportunity and more responsibility in this country. We believe we should do more for individuals, and we have to rebuild the American community. That is the new Democratic Party that asks for our support in this election.

	Ladies and gentlemen, you know here in this state, better than any other state in America, what has happened in the last four years. You know what has happened in the last twelve years.

	The people who have run our country have a simple theory called trickle-down economics. They believe, they honestly believe, with all their heart, that if you just keep taxes low on the richest Americans, and give more and more money to the people at the top, that they'll take the money and they'll invest it in the rest of us, and we'll all go to work, and we'll do fine.

	They believe we'll all be at work, and therefore, we'll all pay taxes, and the budget will be fine.

	Now, we have tried it their way for twelve years. And while I have no defense for everything the United States Congress has done, let me tell you this: In ten of the last twelve years, Reagan and Bush and Quayle have asked for more money to be spent than was spent. We have quadrupled the deficit. We have reduced our investment in the future.

	We have gone from the world's biggest banker to the world's biggest debtor. We've gone from first in the world to thirteenth in wages. And most Americans are working harder for less money today than they were making ten years ago. And most people in this crowd are, too.

	We have tried it their way. We are living in a world economy that we no longer dominate, and that we can only lead if we are prepared to invest in new jobs, educate our people, and work together so we can compete and win in a tough global economy. And that is what my campaign represents.

	So I say to you, I'm not for any more across-the-board tax cuts for wealthy people. I say give them tax cuts if they use the money to invest in America and American jobs and American businesses and American opportunities.

	I'm not for leaving the people who won the Cold War, in the defense industries of California and Texas and Connecticut and America, out in the cold. When we reduce defense, let's spend every last dollar reinvesting in an American economy for the twenty-first century.

	I am not for abandoning the high tech industries that are the engine of America's economic growth. I met yesterday with the leaders of twenty-one companies that have created 45,000 jobs since George Bush became president. In this country we have lost private-sector jobs, and there are now more people working for government in America than are going to work in factories every day.

	I say, let's make a partnership with those high-tech companies to get more jobs at higher wages and high technology in the United States.

	And I don't know if you saw it in the morning press, but yesterday, the leaders of those twenty-one companies, most of whom are Republicans, endorsed the Clinton-Gore ticket in 1992 because we represent a new direction for America.

	And I believe that we owe it to everyone of you to give you the opportunity to fill the jobs of the twenty-first century. Which means we have to have a system of lifetime education and training for every American without regard to race or ethnicity or religion or income.

	We've got to provide that opportunity to everybody. What does that mean? What does that mean? That means that the state of California--it means no more Bush, that's what it means, that's right.

	What does it mean? It means, it means that we have to open the doors of college education to all Americans.

	One of the reasons that California built one of the great economies in the world is that you had a system here that opened the doors of education to everybody, and they have been closing for the last two years.

	Yesterday I was at San Jose State, which has produced more engineers in the last four years than MIT, Berkeley, and Stanford combined, and they turned 1,000 people away this year, cut course offerings by 20 percent, raised fees by 40 percent. Why? Because this economy is crashing around our ears.

	If you vote for Bill Clinton and Al Gore, we will set up a national trust fund, and anybody can borrow the money to go to college.

	But you'll have to pay it back. You'll have to pay it back as a percentage of our income after you go to work, or even better, by giving two years to rebuild America, be a teacher, be a police officer, work with children, work in a housing program, work with the elderly or people with disabilities.

	We could solve the problems of America, and educate a whole generation of Americans.

	Now that represents a real family value in Latino communities in the United States.

	We also have to recognize that not everybody will go to a four-year college, but everybody who doesn't should have the right to be in an apprenticeship program and get two years of training beyond high school to get good jobs, not dead-end jobs.

	And every adult should have access to a community education center to be reeducated. The average eighteen-year-old will change jobs eight times in a lifetime. We need education for the forty and the fifty and the sixty-year-olds, too, so that they will not be dragged down by the global economy, but be lifted up.

	And we need not only do what we need, but we must, we must join the ranks of every other advanced country and finally--finally--control these outrageous spiraling health care costs, and provide basic health care to all Americans.

	Two days ago, a group of 77,000 physicians in this country finally came out in a courageous step for a national health care system which would limit health care increases to inflation, and control health care costs even for doctors in hospitals.

	But we ought to start with the insurance companies the bureaucracies, the regulations, the drugs, the things that are breaking the people of this country in health care costs.

	And we ought to invest more in community health clinics, and in basic health care for the elderly.

	These are the things we will do if you will give us a chance to take the reins of this government. And if we don't do it, we can never get control of the government deficit. We cannot restore health to the American economy.

	And finally let me say, people say, well, how are you going to pay for these things? I'll tell you how. I'll tell you how. We're going to pay for the tax incentives by asking the richest 2 percent of Americans to pay their fair share. Their taxes went down, while the American people's taxes went up.

	We are going to cut billions of dollars in inessential spending for the federal government. We're going to replace by attrition, reduce by attrition, not by firing anybody, but by phasing them out, 100,000 federal employees, and take that money, put 100,000 police officers on the street in America to protect America.

	We're going to bring health care costs in line with inflation, and we're going to reinvest every dollar in defense cuts in putting the American people to work here at home; that is how we'll bring down the deficit and increase jobs in America.

	But let me say in this community, which is known for hard work and the strength of its families, we cannot do any of these things unless the American people are willing to take on new responsibilities. We must have a new program to move people from the welfare rolls to the work rolls. More investment in people who have no education, and education and training and support for their children.

	But then when you can go to work, you have to go to work, in a private-sector job or community service. Only after you can do it, to support your children.

	We ought to have a much tougher system of child support enforcement in this country, so you can't cross the state line and get out of taking care of your children.

	We ought to make it clear to all of our working people, that no matter what the president does, if you don't have the courage and the willingness to reeducate and retrain yourself constantly throughout a lifetime, there is nothing anybody can do for you, no one, no one, no president, can repeal the laws of economic change that are sweeping through this country.

	I want to make change your friend, but you'll have to do your part to make that happen.

	Finally, I want to make government work again for all of you. I want to reduce the influence of lobbyists and special interest groups. I want to give you more power in elections. I want to do what I can to make you feel that this system is working for everyone.

	But you have to do your part. In forty-eight days, you'll be given a chance to vote for change. And make no mistake about it: this election is a vote for change against the status quo; for new ideas against ideas that have failed; for the courage to grasp the future against the quiet comfort of the past.

	And I think the American people have the courage to change. Even if you say, I am a conservative, remember this, there are times in every life, and times in the life of every country, when in order to conserve what you hold most dear, you have to have the courage to change.

	We are on the wrong track. We are in the grip of the wrong ideas. We are governed by the wrong direction.

	Help me change the country on November 3rd for yourselves, your family, and your future.

	Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you.

BUDGET DEFICITEDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDEQUAL OPPORTUNITYGLOBAL ECONOMYHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCEHIGH TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIESTAXATION--GENERALWEALTH DISTRIBUTION     å) ±) «) §) Ÿ)
 ”) ) Š) ~) t) r) h)	 ¦ 	 ˜ 	 x 	 g 	 Y 	 > 	 $ 	  e: