Speeches\1992\dem\S92D1030.002SPEECH1992DemocratCLINTON (D)10/30STUMPSpringfieldOHIOOH2128 WORDS
	[Missing text] almost at Halloween. I want to say a special word of recognition to the young people from the Miami View Elementary School in south Charleston. Where are you back there?

	They brought 186 grade school children here. This election is about their future and I'm glad they're here.

	You know, my fellow Americans, yesterday my opponent, Mr. Bush, did you know what he said? He said that Al Gore and I were bozos who didn't know as much about foreign policy as his dog Millie. And that we were crazy and that Gore was the Ozone Kid.

	Well, there is as much difference between what Gore knows about foreign and domestic policy and what Quayle knows is as the ground and the ozone. I'll say that.

	It's rather undignified for a man who's the president to say his opponents are crazy. But let me tell you what--since he used the word I'll tell you what I think is crazy. I think it's crazy that unemployment is going up and incomes are going down. Crazy that a guy who said, "Read my lips," and signed the second biggest tax increase in history is campaigning as somebody who's against taxes. Crazy that one in ten Americans is on food stamps and there are more working poor people than there were four years ago.

	I think it's crazy that 100,000 Americans a month are losing their health insurance and that every week elderly people in Ohio and Arkansas and throughout the United States have to make a choice between medicine and food. Now that is crazy.

	I think it is crazy that Mr. Bush says the issue is trust when we now know he told Mikhail Gorbachev not to pay any attention to anything he said during the campaign for president. He couldn't take any of it seriously. He tells Gorbachev the truth, doesn't tell you the truth. If Gorbachev shouldn't take it seriously, the people of Ohio should not take him seriously.

	I mean, here is a guy who's running an administration where the FBI is investigating the Justice Department and the Justice Department is investigating the FBI. I'm sorry folks, there's no time for criminals in Ohio. They're too busy looking into each other.

	Here's a guy who comes here to this part of the country and runs an ad on farmers, criticizing the Clinton-Gore plan on farms, trying to scare the farmers in Ohio, when Al Gore lives on a farm. I represent a farming state where we grow soybeans, cotton, rice, wheat, corn, chickens, hogs, and cattle and Bush and Quayle don't know "Come here" from "sic 'em" from farming.

	He comes to Ohio and tells you we're going to cost defense jobs and he cites a study from the University of New Mexico where the author of the study said our plan would create more jobs than Bush would and that Bush misused his plan. The Dayton newspaper and everybody else who's looked into these ads says they are false, false, false.

	I think it's crazy for him to ask to be trusted. That's what's crazy.

	I tell you something else: I thought it was crazy that he had three highly placed members of the State Department go over to an old file building the other day and look into my mother's passport file, digging up dirt.

	Now, before you get too upset, just imagine it--they waited until the building closed down. At 6:00 at night these three people with expensive clothes show up, they elbow each other for four hours, looking in boxes. And at 10:00 they quit, disappointed that they couldn't dig up any dirt on my poor subversive mother.

	Now, here's the good thing about it--it's the only time those three political hacks worked until 10:00 the whole time Bush was president.

	And then he says we are bozos. Let me tell you something folks; at least Bozo makes people laugh. Bush makes people cry. We're going to laugh on Tuesday. We're going to laugh in America again, we're going to lift up America again.

	My fellow Americans, you here in Ohio are a lot like the people I have represented as governor for a dozen years. You know the difference between truth and fiction. Bush is trying one more time to sucker the conservative mainstream folks of Ohio by pretending to be anti-tax, when he signed the second biggest tax increase in history, anti-government when the conservative Heritage Foundation says he raised regulations by more than any president in twenty years, and paint me as some wild-eyed liberal when my state ranks first in the country in job growth, has the second lowest taxes in the country, the lowest state and local government spending in the country and we created manufacturing jobs while he lost 1.4 million manufacturing jobs in the United States.

	I'll tell you what Al Gore and Bill Clinton stand for--an end to trickle-down economics, to the destruction of the middle class, to the destruction of the manufacturing base. An end to a foreign policy that will not use our powers to export or our powers to break down unfair trade barriers. Corn's 20 percent cheaper than it was four years ago, soybeans are 25 percent cheaper, and this guy is parading as the friend of the farmers. Send him a message folks. You bought it in 1988 and you're not going to buy it in 1992.

	You know, when I was a kid my mother used to tell me, "If you fool me once, shame on you. If you fool me twice, shame on me." We're not buying it this time. We're not going to buy it.

	I offer you a new Democratic party for a new era. A Democratic party committed, not to trickle-down economics and not to tax-and-spend economics, but to putting the American people first, to investing in our jobs here, in our education, in our health care, and growing this economy so we can compete and win, so when people work hard and play by the rules they will be rewarded.

	Yes, I do ask families with incomes above $200,000 to pay a little more in taxes; yes I do. And I want to make it very clear because yes, I do ask foreign companies operating in the United States to pay only the taxes that American companies would pay on the same income. That's all.

	Now, they've done a lot of fearmongering on this in Ohio. You have a lot of good foreign companies here. We have a lot of good foreign companies in Arkansas. I recruited them. I want foreign investment in our country.

	But let me tell you something folks; when our companies go overseas, they have to pay taxes. We should all pay fair taxes here. That's all I ask. But let me tell you what I want to do with that money. I want to give those same people the chance to lower their tax bills but no more something-for-nothing, no more across-the-board tax cuts, no more tax breaks for moving our jobs overseas.

	Instead, we'll say, "You want to make a million dollars in the Clinton-Gore administration? Here's how you do it--invest in a new plant, invest in new equipment, invest in a new small business, invest in new technologies. Put the American people back to work and you can make all the money you want." That's what we want to do.

	And I'll tell you something else; we have got to become the last, but I still hope, the best advanced country in the world, to finally put a lid on health care costs and provide basic health care to our people.

	Here in Ohio I have heard stories that would break heart after heart--people who cannot change jobs because they've had sick children, people who had to leave their jobs to get any medical care for their sick children and go on welfare because that's the only place they could get any medical care, businesses that are going broke, people who cannot compete in manufacturing.

	I have offered the American people a plan which will reduce the enormous costs of insurance and bureaucracy and paperwork, unnecessary procedures, fraudulent billing, and give the American people a health care system worthy of them. We can do it and save money and invest it in our own future.

	And finally, I have challenged the American people, all of us together, to change, to be a part of this new future. The idea that most clearly embraces the new political order I seek to bring to America--more opportunity, more responsibility, and a stronger sense of community that we're all in this together--is the idea I have advanced to open the doors of college education to all Americans.

	If I am elected on Tuesday I will ask the United States Congress to establish a national service trust fund, a domestic GI Bill, a domestic peace corps. Any American could borrow the money to finance a college education and then would have to pay it back, either as a small percentage of their income at tax time, so you couldn't beat the bill, or, even better, by giving two years of service to our nation here at home--be a police officer, be a teacher, be a nurse, work with children in trouble, work with people with disabilities to help them stay at home, work with senior citizens to help them stay at home.

	You think about it. No government bureaucracy. With pure, raw people power we can solve a lot of the people problems of Ohio and the United States, educate a whole generation of America and invigorate our economy for the twenty-first Century. We can do it. We can do it with a little vision and a little will.

	You will have to decide on October--on November the 3rd--I got thinking about Halloween. Every time I think about Mr. Bush I get spooked and think about Halloween. The prospect of four more years is so frightening, you're going to have to decide on November 3rd, whether Ohio will vote for four more years of the same old thing. Four more years of the people of Ohio working longer work weeks for lower wages. Four more years of hard rhetoric and declining farm incomes. Four more years of working poor people and rising welfare rolls. Four more years of one in ten Americans on food stamps. Four more years of the elderly of this country being pushed into nursing homes when they could stay at home, and choosing between medicine and food. No.

	Or you could make a different decision. You can say, "I am tired of reading about all these government agencies in Washington investigating each other. I want them to work for me again."

	You could say, "I am tired of reading about all these scandals. I want to sweep the broom clean and bring in a new team who will lift up America."

	You could say, "I believe it's time we put the people of this country first again, elected somebody who came out of the middle class, somebody who's balanced a government budget, somebody who's taken on special interest groups, somebody who's never been part of the Washington establishment but who gets things done."

	My fellow Americans, if you vote for me I will not see it as a victory of a political party but a victory for all of the people of the United States, and I will act accordingly.

	I ask you to join with me for these last three days to reach out and call your friends and family and neighbors to tell them this is the most important election in a generation.

	We are being tested. It is clear what is happening here with all the mud that is being thrown and all the bogus adds that are being run. No matter how many times they are condemned in the press as false, false, false, the other side just runs them on because they don't care. All they want to do is to make you afraid.

	This, in the end, is a race of hope against fear, of vision against staying in the same rut, of new ideas against failed ideas, of the courage to change against the comfort of the status quo.

	This country is still around after 200 years because whenever we had to do it we voted our hopes over our fears. We voted our vision, we voted our courage, we voted for new ideas.

	Be on the cutting edge of change, Ohio. You can turn out the lights on trickle-down and open up a new day for America on Tuesday. Sign on. Press on. I need you.

	Let's lift this country up and move it forward.

	Thank you and God bless you all.

EDUCATION, HIGHER--FINANCIAL AIDHEALTH CARE--COST/INSURANCETAXATION--GENERALTAXATION--REVENUE ENFORCEMENT--FOREIGN COUNTRIES     / à. Ú. Ö. Î.
 Ã. ¾. ¹. ®. ª. ¨. ž.	 | 	 \ 	 A 	 0 e: