Speeches\1952\dem\S52D1009.001SPEECH1952DemocratSTEVENSON (D)10/09STUMPST. LOUISMISSOURIMOKIEL AUDITORIUM2,490 WORDS

	A year from now St. Louis will celebrate the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of Thomas Jefferson's Louisiana Purchase. 

	That act of statesmanship more than doubled the area of the United States. The price was fifteen million dollars. The value cannot be calculated. Yet the Purchase was opposed by the men of a conservative political party far gone in decay, split into quarrelsome factions, able to unite only in fear of the future and in noisy condemnation of Thomas Jefferson for daring to look ahead. 

	They remind me of some men today who know the price of everything and the value of nothing. They are the Old Guard Republicans who are making a desperate bid to direct the future of this country. 

	What we will really commemorate in 1954 is the triumph of Jefferson's belief in the American future. Because he believed deeply, he dared greatly and so he bequeathed greatness to this country. 

	St. Louis stands at the keystone of our continental arch. Here the rivers and roads and railroads from the east joined the great north-south highway, the Mississippi. Here, too, people came from all over the United States to begin the great adventures of going west. Beyond St. Louis was an empty land and a great future. 

	Today great cities lie along the route Lewis and Clark traveled on Jefferson's orders. Along the trails the wayfaring Americans found immense treasures in gold and silver, copper and oil, and other resources. But they found no treasure a hundredth part as valuable as the land itself. The history of a century and a half is the story of how the empty land filled up. 

	Population, wealth, power, productivity have all steadily increased in the United States. That fact is at the core of American life. An expanding economy has meant a steady rise in the standard of living for all of us. 

	For every generation the United States has been what the New World was to the first colonists who came here--a land of new and continuing opportunity today and a fairer promise for tomorrow. 

	Twenty-five years from now there will be thirty-five million more of us than there are now. At every dinner table set for four people today there is an invisible fifth plate. In 1975 the land which has always answered our increasing needs will have to fill that plate as well as the other four. It will have to provide joists and rafters, flooring and roofing, for the now invisible fifth house. This is the measure of the task cut out for us--and of the opportunity the future holds for men of vision and daring. 

	I would speak to you tonight about our opportunities. I would speak to you of America's new frontier. 

	Before exploring this frontier, however, before suggesting what lies ahead in the next twenty-five years, let us for a moment glance backward twenty-five years. America in 1927 lived in a fool's paradise. It ended rudely. We came to a stop in 1930. The whole mighty engine flew apart. Numerous thoughtful men actually questioned whether the system of American capitalism could survive. 

	Well, it is one of history's odd ironies that today the Republicans are accusing us Democrats of being enemies of free capitalistic enterprise--when the plain truth is that it was Democrats that saved the American capitalistic system under the leadership of Franklin Roosevelt. 

	Today America is more prosperous than any other nation in history. Of course, the Old Guard orators are going around the country these days broadcasting gloomy warnings that our prosperity is a fake, that it is based on war, that a depression will come with peace. This is nonsense. The truth is that our tremendous defense effort is holding us back, gobbling up the goods our people need at home, and when we have at last won through to safer waters, we shall be able to work at a hundred and one tasks that need doing. 

	But tonight I do not propose to talk to you about the past, nor about the Old Guard of the Republican party, in whose ranks my opponent has enlisted or been shanghaied; it doesn't matter which. I would speak with you about more important matters. 

	Today not everyone in this country is sharing fairly in our national prosperity. Schoolteachers, pensioners, old people living on savings, widows living on the proceeds of life insurance--these people often cannot make ends meet today because prices have outrun their incomes. We must stop the price rise--and we know how to do it if only the Republican Old Guard will give us a chance. 

	Others among us are in a still more serious plight. How can we talk about prosperity to the sick who cannot afford proper medical care, to the mentally ill for whom there is no room in our overcrowded institutions? How can we talk about prosperity to the hundreds of thousands who can find no decent place to live at prices they can afford? And how can we talk prosperity to a sharecropper living on worn-out land, or to city dwellers packed six to a room in an unlit tenement with a garbage-strewn alley for their children's playground? 

	To these people national prosperity is a mockery--to the eleven million families in this nation with incomes of less than $2,000 a year. 

	Do these facts shock you? They shock me. What can we do to improve this situation? There will always be the foolish and improvident. But we are concerned here with much more than that. And what is the proper role of government? 

	This is one of the great questions on which our two political parties divide. 

	It seems to me that the answer is this: Government has three duties. 

	First, government is an umpire, denying special privilege, ensuring equal rights, restraining monopoly and greed and bigotry, making sure that the game is played according to the rules. On this point, the Republicans agree--so long as they write the rules. 

	Second, government has the duty of creating an economic climate in which creative men can take risks and reap rewards, so that our economic life will have a continuous flow of fresh ideas and fresh leadership; and of course, it means the building of solid defenses against the greatest threat to that flow--depression. 

	This, perhaps above all others, has been the great contribution of the Democratic party in the last twenty years. In taking the nation out of the worst depression in its history, we reformed the economy so effectively that, under continuing wise leadership, there never need be another disastrous depression such as we have known in the past. 

	The way you stay out of depressions is by stability and maintaining the buying power of the people. In the last twenty years--through price supports for the farmers, minimum-wage and collective-bargaining laws for the workers, social security measures for the unemployed and the elderly--we have built foundations under the national economy. 

	The Republicans are against depression just as much as we Democrats are--and especially during September and October of election years! But the rest of the time they are busy opposing and denouncing most of these defenses against depression as "socialistic." 

	Third, government has the duty of helping the people develop their country. 

	The federal government made the Louisiana Purchase, and on that land a nation grew to greatness. No private corporation would have built Grand Coulee Dam, yet in the Grand Coulee country people are building their homes and establishing their private businesses, and farmers are converting desert into garden. 

	And this is only one of the frontiers that government has helped the people open in recent years. The Republicans disagree on this. They say that such activity is interference with private enterprise. But the fact is that it is this very activity of government which enables private enterprise to flourish. 

	Have any great frontiers in human history ever been opened without the help of government? Christopher Columbus discovered the New World, but it was the Queen of Spain who provided his ships. The American government not only bought the Louisiana Territory but subsidized the railroads that spanned it, opened government lands to homesteaders, built TVA so the Middle South could lift itself out of the quagmire of want. Government achieved the miracle of atomic power which is the new dimension for both good and evil in the world of tomorrow. 

	It is this partnership of government with free and daring men that we need today. 

	No doubt the Republican Old Guard would say that that was all very well in the old days--but today the frontier is closed. 

	I say to you that the American frontier has never beckoned more invitingly to men and women of initiative and adventure. 

	Even our life span has increased. In less than a generation, a young man at twenty will look forward to a working life five years longer than he could have anticipated in 1930. 

	Right now there are sixty-two million Americans at work. During the next ten years, there will be ten million more Americans ready and able to work. With their help, we can lift our production from 336 billion dollars a year to 475 billion dollars a year. 

	These are astronomical figures. What do they mean to you and me? They mean just this: The amount that each of us can spend can be lifted by some $600 per year by 1962. This amounts to $2,400 for a family of four. In other words, we can make the familiar ugly, grinding poverty in this country of ours a thing of the past. 

	We can make America the land for all of us what we want it to be for each of us. We need more hospitals, more schools, more housing, more electric power, more soil conservation. 

	And we can achieve these things--if we but have faith in ourselves, in our heritage of freedom and in our limitless future. 

	In the first six weeks of the campaign I set forth--as clearly as I could--the policies which I think are best calculated to keep our frontiers ever widening and which will enable all the people to share fairly in the new age of abundance. 

	Let me remind you of these Democratic policies: 

	One. To repeal and replace the Taft-Hartley law with a new law which promotes the private settlement of disputes, and to work in other ways for an orderly and fair balancing of the interests between labor and management. Production postponed is production lost, and in our industrial society production losses are coffin nails for workers and owners and consumers alike. 

	Two. Price supports for agriculture; continuing search for practicable methods of supporting the prices of perishables; continuation and improvement of such other programs as rural electrification and soil conservation. 

	Three. To widen the coverage and expand the benefits available under our social security system and to honor our obligations to the veteran. 

	Four. To continue our efforts through private, local, state and federal action to eradicate discrimination based on race, religion, or national origin. 

	Five. To move ahead on our well-established housing programs. 

	Six. To meet our most pressing educational needs. 

	Seven: To combat relentlessly the inflation which strikes so heavily at family budgets. 

	Eight: To review our tax policy with an eye to the effect of taxes on incentives to produce and invest, on the ability to consume the full output of the economy, and on the need for a balanced budget. 

	Nine: To encourage small business and enforce our anti-monopoly laws. 

	Ten: To continue the progressive development and sound conservation of the nation's land and water resources.

	I want to add one word about the matter of a balanced budget. It will be easy to balance the budget in a strong and advancing economy. It will be hopeless to try to balance it in a depression. 

	Let no one misjudge me on this point. No matter how peaceful and prosperous we are, a balanced budget requires us always to distinguish between the pleasing and the necessary. A government spending beyond its income in prosperous peacetime, or spending carelessly at any time, does not have a proper view of its job and is dangerously vulnerable to adversity. Let us not be too enterprising in discovering additional things for government to do, and more enterprising in defining the essential things that government must do in order to provide an atmosphere in which industry, agriculture and labor can work and prosper and progress together. 

	That is our program. We take our stand upon the fundamental principle that the role of government is, to sum up, just this: To remove the roadblocks put in the way of the people by nature and by greedy men; to release the energies of the people, so that free men may work the miracles of the future as they have worked the miracles of the past. 

	No man could travel across our country, as I have done, without being deeply stirred. No man then--his heart touched and his mind moved--could but reflect upon his country's destiny, his love for it the greater as perils encompass it. As we walk through a troubled time, let us remember that the United States was born to greatness. 

	Greatness was breathed into us at birth by the founders of the Republic, and if we be true to them and their teachings we cannot be false to ourselves. 

	Let us remember that when men had few rights anywhere, the Declaration of Independence proclaimed the earth-shaking doctrine of the Rights of Man everywhere. As its words went winging around the world, those whose eyes were cast down and those whose backs were bent cupped their ears to listen. They raised their eyes and by ever so little straightened their backs bit by bit. And as, two centuries ago, we were the hope of the world's oppressed, we remain their hope today. 

	Let us remember that our bigness springs from our fields, forests, mines, and factories; but our greatness springs from the charters of our freedoms, and from countless men and women who believed, and believing, wrought. 

	If some catastrophe destroyed the things that we have built, we could rebuild them. But if through some catastrophe we lost faith in the principles by which we came to birth and by which we live, we could never return to greatness. 

	And so I say that when we speak of our abundant future, let us never forget to offer thanks for the riches which are ours today. 

	A new day is dawning. I do not say all problems are solved. Far from it. But we have dared to try to solve them. We have courage to dare the new, the compassion to help the wretched and the vision to see what men can really be in the society of our dreams.
AGRICULTURE--SUBSIDIES/PRICE SUPPORTSBUDGET, BALANCEDDISCRIMINATION, ETHNIC/RACIALECONOMY--DEPRESSIONENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONGOVERNMENT--ROLE/SIZEHISTORY--UNITED STATESORGANIZED LABOR--GENERAL     : ⁄9 ‘9 –9 »9
 ª9 ∂9 ±9 ®9 †9 û9 è9 Ñ9	 ¿ 	 õ 	 ã 	 n 	 [ 	 C 	 . 	  e: